The project started after i finished school, i needed something on my own to continue because my capstone finished and we made a drone frome scratch and it
  was insane, i wanted to touch all sides of engineering, so since i was in rocketry concordia i wanted to make a fin active control rocket, with custom
  made pcb and all, so i started the schematic of the board of the mcu but no sensors and didnt touch it for from 2024 to 2025 becaue i traveled all of
  asia with my friends, got a new job in engineering, and got a house with my highschool sweetheart but i needed to do real engineering for me and have fun, because as mch as we say work is engineering sometimes you gett stuck in mundain tasks, so 2025 i got back in the project and buy a refurbished 3d printer for 200$ and a solder sstation.
  it was super hard because i forgot everything about electronid design and kicad, while handlong moving in, the new work and new responsabilities of adulthood, i got into
  it, i did my V1 of the pcb design, corrected hundreds of mistakes, did i think 10 passes of revisions since i dont have a formal education in electronic
  pcb design, i just wanted the project to take life, started to read electronics books but so boring so did everything with youtube and forums warriors
  and electronics subreddits. I even though of hiring an electrical engineer to review my design but i though that if i graduated of aerospace eng i could do it alone
  (im just a rat its too expensive ahaha). Next step was the pcb layout, goddamn that was the hardest part because some electrical eng rules of placement and ic are
  not hard rules but rather good practice. And i was stuborn i wanted the board to be good looking and fit horizontally so in a 67mm diameter tube (my rocket size),
  so choosing a bga mcu was obligatory since there was no space, and i wanted something more complete and a challenge compared to basic mcu's. So doing a 2 layer was impossible
  even tho i was using both sides, 4 layers and it was hard to route everything in the bga mcu since there was no space. I needed to have a good fitment for all the ic's and 
  connections for servos and telemetry and camera but also gps, interfereence control like emi shields and enough copper to handle 4 servos, 8v battery, 3.3v buck converter and multiple sensors and 3 pyro channels on that small board
  it was impossible mission, it took me a while and multiple phases of changing the whole architecture. Finally i made it work, did the list of BOM, ordered the teensy bootloader to pcbway
  to have access to pjrc libraries and stuff (super guy by the way, he supports everyone and answer in 1 day). Finally during my trip to Peru, i generate the gerber files, go back and 
  forth with supplier and order the think for maybe 400cad (preassambled because i have 2 left hands lol). If i have done an error in the pcb design possibliy i wouldve lost 400$ and hundreads of hours.
  I receive the board, its so beeautiful, i get emotional, i plug it to my pc, nothing, no com port, nothing in device manager, i debug for 2 wholes nights, i find 2 major error in the mcu design that needs me to remove the mcu
  do a procedure to connect 2 bga holes to ground, i cant do it, it microscopic and a procedure super complex, i get discouraged, i sleep on it, then like in the movies, a lamp lights up on top of my head, 
  i check the logic of all my compoenents, THE FUCKING RESET BUTTON WAS SHORTED BY DESIGN, lord what do i do, i pick up my knife, and cut the trace shorting it to ground, and i hear a heavenly sound, the bipbip of a device recognized by windows.
  Al hamdoulillah, the 2 major issues were not that major and the design could work without putting k6 pin to gnd and L7 could be left floating. These errors would be corrected for V2 haha.
  In meanwhile I have designed all the rocket on fusion360 with carbon fiber rods, majority of the body is 3d printed with 4.4g servos for the 3d printed fins. 
  fusion360 was hard but it was fun, its just that my project organization is ass since i never learnt cad ahaha and i like to go fast so i skip steps sometimes and it backfires after
  when i need to go back to previous version (suprise the version i want does not exist anymore lol!). So i order G74 motors, normally enough to bring the rocket to 500m. I order the camera,
  the sd cards, the batteries, th parachute, the black powder, the ematches, the antennas and telemtry system. My wife goes to sleep, she calls me, i tell her im coming in a few minutes and next thing its 3am and im still building the ground station interface.
  I buy the wires, the crimping tools, the screws, shock cords, connectors and my beloved RIDEN dc power supply. i start coding and printing and coding and printing and assembling.
  Until i have every sensor work, telemetry work, so altimeter, gps, voltmeter, currentmeter, camera, telemtry. Ah by the way i blew my 5 amp fuse because i shorted a jst-gh connector, like i said
  i have 2 left hands and nearly burnt my only board. got the barometer, accelerometer, sd card on board and imu working also. Next step is simulate everything on simulink, i already have experience on modeling vehicle so this part was the easiest.
   just need the fusion 360 and openrocket numbers to have the right number and fix the PIDS in simulation and on the real board. Simulation is not simple but with the help of internet
 the physics behind that rocket (that is technically named a missile but i dont like it) is well documented and i learned a lot about dynamics and reference frames and moments and forces and drag and center of gravity and center of pressure and also fins center of pressure etc. 

9-23-2026:
I simulated the rocket dynamics using the aerospace library on Simulink, it includes Thrust of motor 
in lookup table, dynamic drag, animated flight, servo model, PID control, Fins model 
and physical properties like the rocket inertia, cg, cp which were measured physically, the inertia was measured 
with the bifilar pendulum technique). Upon looking at weak points of the rokcet i saw that the direct drive of the fin
was super flimsy, the fin could rotate in axis where its not supposed to and i was scared it would brake
the servo horn or with air speed could break. So even if I had 0 space to make it sturdier because of the directdrive 
and that the motor is in the middle of the rocket surrounded by the 4 servos, I activated all my neurons
to find solutions, the easiest design one that took me 2 days after work to implement was to put a 3mm wide
bearing between the servo horn and the servo itself, there is a small gap where a bearing could be press fit with 
a modification of the 3d printed holders and so the fin could sourround the bearing and have all axis support instead of
the fin just surrounding the servo horn it was a success. Now for safety, the issue is that if the servos fail
the passive aerodynamics needs to be designed so with air speed the fins stay completely flat and pointing 
towards the axis of the rocket to avoid creating unwanted moments thats what i did by having 
the attachment more on the top of the fin so air pressure would be a lot more on the bottom of the fin.
Another challenge was the HITL testing, I made a setup where connected by usb the flight computer would receive 
inputs like altitude, angle, speed, etc from the simulink simulation, and then the flight computer would give
servo angle to the simulation. Everything worked great, i have a button in the simulation to switch from HITL to normal simulation.
I feel like I am flight ready with all those testing. The only thing im scared of is since for now i did not use RTOS type dev
Everything is linear, so if i have a missconnection of the sdcard for example the embedded app will try to reconnect for a few ms
which could be catastrophic if its directly upon critical flight phases and with vibration i dont know so thats risky.